all eight planets of our solar system
are unique
and made of very different stuff how
about going on a space journey
from the sun to neptune the farthest
planet of the solar system
we can check what's inside each
celestial body on our way
the sun we're starting our expedition
from the sun
a really big ball of gas and scorching
plasma
the star's core takes up to 25 percent
of its entire radius
inside gravitational forces create
incredible temperatures and pressure
which makes hydrogen fuse into helium
this layer has a temperature
of 27 million degrees fahrenheit give or
take
all that energy moves to a zone called
radiative
it takes on average 170 000 years
for the energy to get all the way from
the core to the next convective zone
there bubbles of hot plasma float upward
and end up at the sun's surface that's
where a visible
300 mile thick layer starts this
gassy zone and don't i know about gas is
called the photosphere
it gets heated to 10 000 degrees and
consists of granules
cells of plasma 600 miles in diameter
each moving further we get to the crown
that's the star's thin atmosphere it's
getting hotter again
with temperatures reaching three and a
half million degrees
so it better not linger mercury
that's the first planet on our way the
smallest of all the four inner planets
mercury is just three thousand miles at
the equator
it's also the second densest planet
topped only by earth
mercury has a massive metallic core it
takes up almost 85 percent of the
planet's volume
its core contains more iron than any
other planet of the solar system
recently it's been discovered mercury
might have a solid inner core
along with its outer core that consists
of liquid metal
the planet's outer shell is composed of
a rocky mantle and solid cross
which is just 250 miles thick
mercury is too small to hold onto its
atmosphere made up of hydrogen and
helium
the planet is also too close to the sun
that's why the solar winds keep sweeping
away
the little atmosphere the planet manages
to gather
whoops there it goes venus
our next stop is the hottest planet in
the solar system
with average temperatures reaching 870
degrees fahrenheit
it means lead would melt if you brought
it to venus
the pressure on the planet's surface is
the same as at a depth of 3000 feet
under water on earth
the planet's metallic iron core is 2400
miles wide
which is almost as the distance from new
york to los angeles
the next layer is a molten rocky mantle
that's 1200 miles thick
the venus's insides are covered with a
crust
it consists mostly of basalt and is 6 to
12 miles wide
the planet's thick atmosphere is
nightmarish
it's 96 of carbon dioxide with 3
of nitrogen and thick clouds of sulfuric
acid
venus also has a heck of a serve her
sister serena is even better
oops wrong venus never mind earth
we've reached our home planet the
densest in the solar system
at the earth's center there's a core
that takes up 15
of the planet's volume it consists of
two parts
the outer and the inner core the inner
core is a solid ball made of iron and
nickel
its radius is 760 miles give or take
which makes 20 of the entire earth's
radius
and 80 of the moon's radius the 1500
mile
thick outer core is liquid it also
consists of iron and nickel
but it's not under enough pressure to be
solid
the temperature at the boundary of our
planet's inner and
outer core is 10 800 degrees
that's as hot as the surface of the sun
and the pressure there
is three and a third million times the
atmospheric pressure at sea level
the mantle surrounds the outer core this
layer is about
eighteen hundred miles thick and makes
nearly eighty four percent of the entire
earth's volume
it consists of silicate rocks rich in
iron and magnesium
the crust is a relatively thin layer
that takes up only one percent of the
earth's volume
hey i like thin crust along with the
upper part of the mantle
it's broken into tectonic plates they
move as fast as your fingernails grow
and let heat escape from the earth's
interior the crust
is mostly made up of oxygen silicon
aluminum
iron and other minerals mars
but it's time we leave our planet behind
and move to the red planet
it's the last of the inner planets which
are also called terrestrial
since they're made up of rock and
minerals mars has a core
made mostly of iron nickel and sulfur
it's between 900 and 1200 miles across
the core doesn't move that's why mars
lacks a planet-wide magnetic field
the weak magnetic field it has is just
0.01 percent of the earth's
the mantle surrounding the core is
composed of thick silicates
oxygen and some other minerals you can
probably compare it with soft rocky
toothpaste
yeah brush your teeth with that the mars
mantel
is also much thinner than the earth's
it's just 800 to 1100 miles thick
the planet's thin crust consists of
volcanic basalt rock
astronomers believe it isn't broken into
tectonic plates and remains in one piece
the crust is covered with fine reddish
dust that looks like talcum powder
i like my crust covered with tomato
sauce and cheese
jupiter the next planet on our way is
very different from the ones we've
already visited
the largest planet in our solar system
jupiter
is a gas giant if the planet was 80
times as
massive as it is now it would have a
chance to turn
into a tiny red dwarf star anyway
if you decided to parachute into jupiter
you would never land on a firm surface
it's still unclear whether the planet's
core is a molten ball of liquid
or a solid rock 14 to 18 times the mass
of
earth there's even some evidence the gas
giant's core
might be melting right at this moment
whatever the truth is
the temperatures at the center of
jupiter reach 63
000 degrees give or take around 90
percent of the planet's atmosphere
is hydrogen the remaining 10 percent is
made up of helium with tiny traces of
other gases
under immense atmospheric pressure
hydrogen and helium gases turn into a
dense fluid the deeper you go
closer to the core this liquid becomes
the mixture of metallic hydrogen and
helium
there's no solid ground on the planet
that's why astronomers define the
planet's surface
as the point where the atmospheric
pressure equals that on earth
you wouldn't be able to stand on that
surface though it's just
another layer of gases but the
gravitational pull there
is more than two and a half times more
powerful than that on our planet
saturn welcome to the planet with the
winds that travel at more than 1100
miles per hour at the equator
it's also the planet with the big rings
saturn is mostly composed of hydrogen
and helium
with some traces of methane ammonia and
water
but it contains more sulfur than jupiter
which gives the planet
a smog like orange hue the atmosphere of
saturn
isn't really different from its surface
but the deeper you go
the higher the pressure becomes and
hydrogen becomes liquid
further to the center of the planet this
liquefied gas
turns into metallic hydrogen like
jupiter
saturn might have a rocky core with
hydrogen and helium surrounding it
on the other hand even if it's made up
of rocky material
the core can still be liquid saturn is
the least dense planet in the solar
system
it has 1 8 the average earth's density
the planet is 95 times more massive than
earth
uranus look at this blue green planet on
our way
it's one of the two ice giants in our
solar system it's composed of more ice
than gas
at the very center of uranus there is a
rocky core
small just half the earth's mass
compared to other planets
uranus core is rather cool only
9 000 degrees fahrenheit an ice mantle
surrounds the solid core
and that's the largest portion of the
planet about 80 percent
it's also not the eyes you might be
thinking about
it's a hot dense fluid made up of water
ammonia ice and methane
sometimes referred to as a water ammonia
ocean
uranus's atmosphere is mostly hydrogen
and helium
but it has its blue-green color because
of methane gas
that absorbs the red light neptune
that's the final stop of our unusual
journey and the second of the two
outer planets known as ice giants it's
also the windiest place in the solar
system
clouds of frozen methane are whipped
across the planet
at a speed of 1200 miles per hour
neptune's core
is solid and consists mostly of iron and
some other metals
its mass is 1.2 times bigger than that
of earth
the temperature inside reaches 9000
degrees
astronomers also believe that at a depth
of 4 500 miles
there might be a diamond layer where
it's raining diamond crystals
over the planet's core there's a large
mantle a superheated region of liquid
with the temperatures getting as high as
3000 to 8500 degrees give or take
the mantle is rich in methane ammonia
and water
and equals up to 15 times earth's mass
neptune's atmosphere forms five to ten
percent of the planet's mass
and stretches twenty percent of the way
down to its core
it consists of eighty percent hydrogen
nineteen percent helium
and a bit of methane gas just like with
uranus the methane gas
is what gives the planet its bluish hue
and its stinky pew